README.md, before:

# Compress Office 

English | [中文](README_ZH_CN.md)

A simple tool that use [ImageOptim](https://github.com/ImageOptim/ImageOptim) to compress images in docx/pptx/xlsx documents, and can reduce file size.

![screenshot](screenshot/example.gif)

## Installing

Clone this repo first:

```
git clone https://github.com/cometeme/compress-office.git
```

Then we need:

1. ImageOptim: https://github.com/ImageOptim/ImageOptim
2. Python 3.8 (and you need to install `rich` package via `pip`)
3. trash: https://github.com/ali-rantakari/trash
4. fd (Optional, can optimize searching speed): https://github.com/sharkdp/fd

If you have Homebrew，run these commands to install dependencies (or install manually):

```
brew install imageoptim python@3.8 trash
pip3.8 install rich
```

Then start ImageOptim, open "Preferences" menu and modify the settings. You can choose to perform lossless or lossy compression on the pictures in the document. The former can maintain the image quality, while the latter can better reduce size. You can also choose whether to remove EXIF information. EXIF contains informations about the time, gps and camera settings. Removes EXIF in the picture can better protect your privacy.

## Usage

Run `compress-office.py` with files or folders you want to compress. You can pass in multiple paths. If you pass in a directory, the program will traverse in the directory and find files that can be compressed.

```
python3.8 compress-office.py [path1] [path2] ...
```

For example:

```
python3.8 compress-office.py ~/Documents ./test.docx
```

When program run for the first time, it will create a file called `process_history.csv`, which records the path of the compressed file and its md5. When running again, if program finds that the file has not changed (file path is in the history and its md5 is the same as recorded), then the program will skip the file without re-compressing, because doing so is not meaningful. If you really need to recompress a file, just delete its record from csv file.

After the compression is complete, the original document will be moved to recycle bin. **Please check your documents before empty the recycle bin.**

## Use `fd` to speed up searching (optional)

The program uses python's built-in `glob` for file traversal by default, but it is very slow when there are many files, so the program supports the use of [fd](https://github.com/sharkdp/fd) to speed up the search.

Enter `brew install fd` in the console to install `fd`, then edit `compress-office.py` and change `use_fd = False` to `use_fd = True` to use `fd` to speed up the search.

## Other questions

### Q1: ImageOptim can only run on MacOS, can I use this tool on other platforms?

A1: Yes, but you need to find a substitute for ImageOptim first, such as `Trimage`. Then modify the `function.py` in this project, and change the cache directory `cache_folder` and the compression command `compress_command` to make this program work.

### Q2: How does this tool compress the pictures in the document? Will it corrupt my documents?

A2: The docx/pptx/xlsx document is essentially a zip compressed package, in which the resources are packaged together. This program decompresses the documents passed in by user into a cache directory one by one, use ImageOptim to compress all the pictures in the cache directory, recompresses them, and puts new file back.

Therefore, **in theory**, using this program will not corrupt files when compressing theme, but in order to prevent unpredictable bugs, it is recommended that back up the files before compress theme. At the same time, this program will move the original document to the recycle bin after compression, and if you found a problem, you can restore the original file from the recycle bin.

### Q3: Why there are many pictures in the recycle bin after compression?

This is because ImageOptim puts the original pictures in the recycle bin when compressing pictures, and there is no setting to cancel this, so this problem cannot be solved temporarily.

Commit message:

use modify time instead of md5, auto detect fd

README.md, after:

# Compress Office 

English | [中文](README_ZH_CN.md)

A simple tool that use [ImageOptim](https://github.com/ImageOptim/ImageOptim) to compress images in docx/pptx/xlsx documents, and can reduce file size.

![screenshot](screenshot/example.gif)

## Installing

Clone this repo first:

```
git clone https://github.com/cometeme/compress-office.git
```

Then we need:

1. ImageOptim: https://github.com/ImageOptim/ImageOptim
2. Python 3.8 (and you need to install `rich` package via `pip`)
3. trash: https://github.com/ali-rantakari/trash
4. fd (Optional, can optimize searching speed): https://github.com/sharkdp/fd

If you have Homebrew，run these commands to install dependencies (or install manually):

```
brew install imageoptim python@3.8 trash
pip3.8 install rich
```

Then start ImageOptim, open "Preferences" menu and modify the settings. You can choose to perform lossless or lossy compression on the pictures in the document. The former can maintain the image quality, while the latter can better reduce size. You can also choose whether to remove EXIF information. EXIF contains informations about the time, gps and camera settings. Removes EXIF in the picture can better protect your privacy.

## Usage

Run `compress-office.py` with files or folders you want to compress. You can pass in multiple paths. If you pass in a directory, the program will traverse in the directory and find files that can be compressed.

```
python3.8 compress-office.py [path1] [path2] ...
```

For example:

```
python3.8 compress-office.py ~/Documents ./test.docx
```

When program run for the first time, it will create a file called `process_history.csv`, which records the path of the compressed file and its modify time. When running again, if program finds that the file has not changed (file path is in the history and its modify time is same as recorded), then the program will skip the file without re-compressing, because doing so is not meaningful. If you really need to recompress a file, just delete its record from csv file.

After the compression is complete, the original document will be moved to recycle bin. **Please check your documents before empty the recycle bin.**

## Use `fd` to speed up searching (optional)

The program uses python's built-in `glob` for file traversal by default, but it is very slow when there are many files, so the program supports the use of [fd](https://github.com/sharkdp/fd) to speed up the search.

If you have HomeBrew, enter `brew install fd` in the console to install `fd`.

## Other questions

### Q1: ImageOptim can only run on MacOS, can I use this tool on other platforms?

A1: Yes, but you need to find a substitute for ImageOptim first, such as `Trimage`. Then modify the `function.py` in this project, and change the cache directory `cache_folder` and the compression command `compress_command` to make this program work.

### Q2: How does this tool compress the pictures in the document? Will it corrupt my documents?

A2: The docx/pptx/xlsx document is essentially a zip compressed package, in which the resources are packaged together. This program decompresses the documents passed in by user into a cache directory one by one, use ImageOptim to compress all the pictures in the cache directory, recompresses them, and puts new file back.

Therefore, **in theory**, using this program will not corrupt files when compressing, but in order to prevent unpredictable bugs, it is recommended to backup files before compress them. At the same time, this program will move the original document to the recycle bin after compression, and if you found a problem, you can restore the original file from the recycle bin.

### Q3: Why there are many pictures in the recycle bin after compression?

This is because ImageOptim puts the original pictures in the recycle bin when compressing pictures, and there is no setting to cancel this, so this problem cannot be solved temporarily.
